
Analysis of reincarnation requires elucidation of the a priori conceptual necessities it implies prior to any attempt to describe its substantial existence.  The principle posits the furtherance of conscious awareness outside an individual lifetime. By its nature, death dissolves away the locality of awareness as associated with the physical body. That particular body is no more, and therefore all of its influences upon the animated subject-consciousness must reduce to zero. Its physical locality no longer confines it, the subject-consciousness can be said to have one of two fates: either non-existence as the necessary by-product of complete non-locality, or a continuance of conscious locality. Refer to the logic of [[The Absolute]] as a reminder why complete non-locality / non-temporality can be equated with non-existence, or simply non-being as being is constituted of a playing out of something, in which with regards consciousness of the physical form in its waking localization vanishes as per the nature of physical death.  

Mysticism often refers to a "higher-self" from which one's subject-consciousness emanates and eventually returns upon death, thus constituting the reincarnation cycle.  The mathematical approach to the question would be to psychologically conceive of the all of the self as a continuously relating subject-object pair and subtracting out that which has its basis in the physical body. Understanding physical death as wholly the loss of all physical process is psychologically jading, but honesty allows us to more seriously realize the domain of any left-over non-physically dependent processes in which to retain post-death localization thus carry on some form of higher spirit. This subtractive model allows clear delineation of genuine non-physical processes that the subject-consciousness participates in. 

Having to posit no out of the ordinary metaphysical planes one can observe already at the physical level how one's higher being might maintain itself beyond incarnate physical bodily death. To say nothing of spiritual substance beyond what the shallowest materialist might be convinced of; demonstrating the plausibility of ways in which the physical impact (given the constraint of the domain of the physical) is continuously elaborated post death isn't challenging. Plato's name says enough.  Enumerable impact is the spiraling imprinted resultant of the just those actions with produce an impact on the material plane.  One can cognize all the ways in which just by virtue of social influence and banter that one's inhabited belief systems, social energy, attitudes, demeanor, philosophies, virtues, vices would all inject themselves into the collective psyche to be tossed around by interaction after interaction, subject to the same eternal laws of ethics as all objects in that they a refined through natural selection (the forces of Karama).  

A virtuous materialist par excellence lives the spiritual life in this way, for room for helpless existentialism is closed to him. To be in material then is to fully recognize his nature as a constituent of the material, and is thus to cognize archetypal subconscious influences inherent in life and its sustaining force. The material to him becomes the vessel of expression in which these higher domains of knowledge play themselves out. 

The miserable materialist is he that remains in incomplete regard for his place in the material, and thus subconsciously cognizes distinct spiritual material, leading to life rejection in one of two ways: material rejection in the form of a false spiritual domain (escapism), or spirit rejection in the form of false understanding of the material by excluding psychological reality (nihilism). The underlying psychology of spirit prioritization is over-identification with the physical, resulting in a dualism that splits the two worlds as #being-in-physical and #being-in-spirit. Because of this world-rejecting quality, philosophical growth is limited as isolated (unintegrated) domains share no reconciliation, the individuation process is blocked as full ego integration is thwarted as one-sided ("sinful") beliefs take hold.   

