
We are dream walkers, floating from plane to plane, fantasy takes on sufficient potency to be deemed actuality. So long as "reality" brings along enough familiarity one calls oneself awake. It must be real if I remember the story, the story is the actual, I remember it, it's here.

Dreams are a kind of reminder that nothing is real; we muse from taste to taste, convincing ourselves of its tangibility. It belongs to that great story of our "lives". It is the "real" dream. Its characteristics are therefore "science", physics is therefore "reality". And when I forget the story in its playing out - that is the error, not the story itself. When I lose myself in what's happening, I am lost, but when I lose myself in the story I am found. And the answer to that great question the story imposes? Lose it: Death. All is self refuting! Shout it as the only truth: antinomy here strikes evermore! What is there to conclude but the unreality of all things? The things are just the attempt at reality, the failure to be.  Reality calls to us and whispers its ultimate secret: unreality. Death shouts from all directions, all things cry for unbeing! Hark those who know God: Becoming as all falls away. 

To elaborate the death thematic: all topics conclude in their own refutation. Analysis of one's life story as comprehended relative to others seems to have historically resulted in its own abdication. The Buddhists, Christians, and whoever else all make the same eventual gesture to concession of life's continuity (the story). One is to meditate and submerge oneself in fantasy. The ego story calls for its completion - just as metaphysics concludes its own demise. What we here witness must be none other than the tenuous constitution of Being itself. Our Logos yearns for death, to exceed itself, to be born anew. Every conclusion is a mistake, any essence is only a failed attempt at itself. The collapse of the wave function is not a fall into actuality, it's the reverse - actuality is the mistake.  - Ghosts are more real than people, after all we never meet the actual people, only their ghosts. 

Aren't we all just the retarded archetype we represent? The ghosts colliding in continuous haunting of "our" plane. It is our "boo" that occasionally scares the ghosts, not the other way around. Who are we to interfere with their business? Who am I to get in the way of my fantasies? And so we haunt ourselves, and were someone to disagree with this notion, they can talk to my ghosts to hear the same never-ending prowl of death they'll encounter in the rest of their phantasms.  Death is so ever-present in all things that it's clear he wants for nothing else than to dance with us.  We turn away again and again only to find him in the very places we run to.  What can be more clear of his call than in what they say is most "real"? Hurry on then and dance with him, reach up to the highest light through his darkness - to that only purity, that place where death himself dies! 

Here is the only mysticism, the true supernal experience, the timeless realms - as it is Death that breathes temporality into all things. Where there is content, there is therefore Truth. Where there is Truth there is therefore Falsity. Where there is Falsity there is therefore Death. At every moment the universe checks if it's done, if it can finally relax, all the strife it encounters must be rather exhausting. 

But I hear the shouts of denial in the air, life manifests and springs forth from it, I do not worship Death, I will for life! They are the ones that are entrapped in Death's miserable snare. Torturing themselves in their attempt to preserve themselves, they reek with the stench of the underworld - the ghost that doesn't die does the haunting. Therefore shall humanity not haunt our successors with our racking shriek. Give proper way, concede yourself, you ghastly ones - do not shout death from the rooftops without jumping to your demise. Bend, pound, and exhaust yourself in being's great movement - then, most importantly, cease your paltering and make way for the next. 

Those who do not remember, do not listen, do not think, and do not seek are those that sit and wait, warping time-space around themselves - and when the wrath of the sea strikes their false tranquility they cry out a scream of pain, for woe is me that fell from the sea: I am lashed by this great whip, I feel its gash in my side, till I find those golden gates - that lead to my demise. Praise Death for he is mercy in my name!




