
Context and motive should be specified regarding the domain of coherent understanding in which one rightfully speaks of genuine knowing. Delineation of this knowable domain requires cognizing the status of language and therefore regarding its referential capacity to adequately construct a system of meaning in direct application to the experiential domain. Knowledge must be adequately accessible to the knower to the extent that its contents provide elucidation of its referents. Given the nature of such knowing as a delineating process by which value has a means of localizing expression - which is itself an a priori requirement of value - knowledge constitutes the domain in which expression occurs as a subset of the domain of total value. 

As a kind of reflective truism knowledge can be considered abstract representations of that domain of being said to not be knowledge expressed symbolical, and therefore codified into that same domain - what we'll call contents (contents of that knowledge - its referent). Thus to know is to become acquainted with the content - acquaintance requiring for its nature a bringing into conscious being of said content, which therefore due to the substantial being ([[Metaphysics - Being as Such]]) and its [[Movement of Being]] disclosed as [[Ethics - Value of Being]] to the central [[Consciousness - Locality in Being]].  Not coincidently these conceptually isolated components of dynamic being are found commonly in mythology, likely as themselves historical symbolic expressions of the same content (the four classic mythological elements).

The circularity warrants some mention: how can knowledge cognize its own expression, how can knowledge coherently posit absolute knowing about itself?  The answer lays in the [[Movement of Being]] (which is itself another circular component) in that knowing must first be said to simply occur in consciousness - which therefore can be said to have two potential forms: absolute knowing, and temporal knowing. All knowing requires conscious illumination, but to designate what is meant a division can be seen between immediate (mystical / devine / absolute) knowing and mediate (temporal) knowing. Temporal knowing occurs in time and requires symbolic abstractions (distance) from the acquainted content, and thus is subject to the perturbations of movement. Absolute knowing, represented by the supernal dimensions in mystical understanding, by its nature reduces to non-knowing - due to its defeating what knowing is as a component of the [[Movement of Being]] (which ceases in the static order of highest being). Absolute knowing and its nonexistence can be roughly felt by the effect of considering truisms such as 1 + 1 = 2. Because the knowing in mathematical structure contains for itself no referential content but its pure form it can be said to be self evident. The formic referents, in so long as its symbols are adequately received, presuppose themselves. There is no coherent negation to a purely posited knowing because it is for itself its desire ([[Ethics - Value of Being]]). Consciousness cannot be said to partake of the nonconscious (also superconscious) absolute (supernal) in so far as its immediate temporal (fleeting) being is concerned. Thus the example of 1 + 1 = 2 also depends on cognition through time - expressed as consciousness, and therefore, while asymptoticly suggesting the status of absolute knowing, fails to serve as a vehicle of absolute knowing beyond its immediately viewable self expression. Therefore, given the psychological reach present in Man, one is able to fully cognize isolations of the absolute insofar as content is sufficiently limited through the delineating knowing process. In these self sufficient knowings the four principles of dynamic being become one (which itself takes on a three fold form where one reflectively cognizes it [[Movement of Being]]). As the knowing becomes fully acquainted with, and indistinguishable from its value, no abstraction or symbolically encoded distance from the object becomes necessary. As no distance is possible between the knowing (delineation) and the value itself it cannot be said to have temporality - as temporality as such requires succession of which there is nothing to posit as modifiable and therefore cannot have being.  The result being unity (divine marriage) between the object and subject. The absolute (timeless domain) appears as a threefold unity of the consciousness with its object of consideration ([[The Absolute]]). Thus knowing - in the sense that it is an occurring process or has its being in consciousness, lacking its temporal necessity is said to have no coherent foundation in the supernal.  That is not to say that knowing has for its contents something other than the absolute. These considerations show the necessity of seeing knowledge not as a distinct and distant viewing of being, but itself as a participant, and thus has full claim to temporal circularity which evades the contradiction it would otherwise have in the absolute. With its claim to temporality, knowing can be expanded as a participant of the [[Movement of Being]], resulting in a positivity as a member being.  

Knowing as a universal mustn't be nor cannot be demonstrated to be onto itself posited. There is no outside perspective to knowing that can be said to conceive its being. Instead, as with the other three principles (of the fourfold foundation), knowing identifies itself as already being. While the endeavor to know the foundations of knowledge may be questioned in regards to its worthiness, the knowledge (of itself) it contains is itself the structure of all knowing, which therefore applies to all consideration. As a result of its universal constitution, and by its virtue as a delineating process, the reflective pursuit of knowledge of knowledge takes on the formic structure given to it by being. Through knowledge as inherent being and its [[Metaphysics - Being as Such]] in [[Consciousness - Locality in Being]] we can be sure our method of knowing through a series of abstractions has genuine reference to the totality, which through its contents finds itself the coherent structure of being from temporal to absolute. 

It is thus that coherent structure of knowing can be achieved of being, because knowing appears in itself in being. Rejection of this idea implies knowing as an inconsequential or accidental feature of being, or that the delineating process is not substantial to the valuation and experiential processes. [[Metaphysics - Being as Such]] shows necessity in the unifying coherence of the knowing, valuing, experiential, and substantial division of dynamic being. This coherence is said to be unified as its fifth principle, in its pure form: that unifying coherence of the four in which their expressions manifest. Mythologically these are the laws of nature in which temporal locality flows. Represented in Christianity as Christ on the Cross, the Cross being the symbol of delineation of the fourfold extension of dynamic being. [[Ethics - Value of Being]] discusses the force of will in which this fourfold + central will being structure constitutes the foundations of ethics. 

Given the structure of knowing as necessarily situated in correspondence to value, experience, and substantiality we are assured from speculations that lack proper referents. In simpler terms only that which is accessible to conscious being is considered knowable. No claim is made of the uncountable manifestations of conscious experience other than its necessary existential conditions. Of these conditions it is therefore possible to follow the formic delineations to further constitute the necessary conditions being is subject to without arbitrary injunctions.    