

Speak thou of Hat thine great one!
Prescribe oneself to Will, and thus may it be that thine essence flows forth


As souls we are trapped, as apes we are gods. Heighten your dualism, draw your soul back into spirit and the world will be yours. Let being be as it is to be, for mind is found in forgoing its contents. Inhere in the world as the world inheres in you, and you will know the Father. Give your being to Mother, for she is the womb through which soul is constituted. 





And it is to retain for himself his dreary sublimity, to espouse his willful dream state - as it so happens to be his wonderous domain of breath. That these halls of misdirection for themselves paint waking being with its spiritual zeal. Cultivated in silence, he hears its tangy resonance pervade, saturating his soul with his dance: a villainous deprecation of the other necessary to retain his creationary fog. It is his art, his soul image. Whence the evil spirit of humanity stop him! 

He is to remain in his dance with doom, whirling in and out, swirling with demon in hand - that no man interject his ascent! He must wear for himself sourness and hesitancy as a refutation of their unbecoming flattening of his story. For therein lays hope of casting his spell. Isolation marks for him that fluctuating bounce of being, as terrorizers they want dissipate his glory!  They know not communion with that underworldly soul as he does in its living form, they dance to a different song. Humanity urges every man to his eternal essence, and upon its canonization every man is denied his place among them.  What for one is gnawing and disgusting the other hums. 

Then therefore must man commune has he must, to dance before the parade in his lonesome as a gesture of his sublimity. His world rejection is his madness, and his madness is his life force.  Who is one but exactly that essence most denied? In doing so he lifts his soul to the highest, he tears away those imposing layers, ascends in only the way he can. His madness as his gift, woe the man who lays dormant in his failure to be. 

He knows if they would just see as he sees they'd be dancing with him, for he dances with the world. Alone he faces all creation, together he becomes merely himself. And thus his task with the other becomes his attempt to exceed himself, to destroy himself, to drop out his personhood and to return to his divine dance. 

How is one to remain egoless in that trap of ego forming social being? We become mere reflections of what others see, that bandwidth of active attentiveness dissociates us. The image of the other is taken on as totality, in all its poverty,  forced upon us, making us slaves. 




God can be said to be that absolute trinitarian structure emanating throughout temporal substance. It has its eternal unity in the threefold form precisely because it sings its eternal form in temporal conscious existence as trinitarian oneness.  It is therefore the inner worldly sanctity that contains and partakes of the eternal essence. God is within us because in God is no separation, the eternal continuously falls through itself - which is why to commune with God is to be present in the unfolding. The tetragrammaton YHVH is the temporally vocalized movement demonstrating God's essence. The movement of being expressing itself in the dance of the three-four. Piercing eternal continuity, the movement of being as coherent unity - the Pythagorean theorem demonstrating the fifth dimension, mathematically expressed as that meta dimension bridging the primordial succession of being - its motion.  It is thus that the fifth is the active force, Mars, begetter of motion and causality. 

The Three-Four in Perception

The phenomenological three-four expression can be understood in sufficient abstraction of any particular perception. A perception is to be considered a temporal occurrence in the motion of being. In characterizing a particularity of perception, necessity arises for delineation, as in the dual acceptance and rejection of the asymptotically non-existent object-domain - explained in [[Epistemic - Knowing]] as knowing to be included in the motion itself. Thus to be included in motion - as #being-in-being, perception takes on the form of motion. Motion already described formally as the temporally expressed subject-object synthesis, we can demonstrate the concept in mundane form as it relates to simply constituted perceptions, which by its nature takes on a narrative structure. 

A demonstration is as follows:

Bringing a single physical object into perception (say a pen), one can identify the experience of conscious being of the object, as in, to be with the object, to take for oneself in consciousness that object. Any object has a mere single property for its essence: itself as a distinct abstraction. Given the consciously delineated abstraction and correspondingly attended resultant object, one can structure the perceptional situation as: the experience of the object in question as pure unreflected oneness. However as consciously construed motion is by experiential fact a movement, the initial conscious oneness of perception of the object requires modification. Change occurs only insofar as there exists a modifiable substance, and it thus necessary that our unity of single-object perception must be shattered into a structure of that particular object as part of a larger totality of modifiable substance - fluctuation of which is necessitated by the movement of being. This is the birth of the dualism necessitated by movement, the object has finally itself for itself, as in the prior oneness no distinction could be made, and thus no reflective essence was plausible. It is then that we are left with the object-for-itself (as a self contained abstraction) and the object-for-another (as a distinction delineating that object as having being other than itself). We thus speak of the object-domain as a referent for the field of all possible such objects, though no such object-domain has phenomenological reality (a variation of the #in-itself dilemma).  Given our object and not-object division it is necessary as a reminder that they necessarily conceive each other, i.e.. one cannot exist without the other, and blah blah blah about syzygies (basic concept of dualism, yin-yang).  Returning to our foundational imposition of temporal movement of being it becomes necessary to insatiate the synthesis of our object dualism, namely - subject, or that unifying being in which the reflection can occur. It is again not necessary to conclude any metaphysical necessity of trinitarian synthesis emerging from dualism, rather movement of being itself dictates it. The argumentative force is purely the necessary form as a result of the fact of motion. Phenomenological, psychological reality dictates it thus, though the argument is really necessary only by the historic misunderstanding that psychology and metaphysics are properly different domains of Science, the culprit being the expansion of conscious psychological form of individuality.  Proper dismissal of this error is demonstrated in Kant's transcendental a priori necessary forms, [[Epistemic - Knowing]] discusses the fact that knowing is properly itself situated in the movement of being as the delineating force of motion, which therefore has no place in any Science outside psychology, which further frees one to speak freely of metaphysics as phenomenal psychology without error.  One should certainly not morn the historical mistake as an abasement of philosophy, but rather celebrate it as a double negative expansion of conscious horizons. Returning to the point, movement begets reunification of the dualism as were no synthesis to occur, those unsynthesized partial objects correspond in no way to the movement of being. Therefore the object and non-object in question share being as unified, though this shared being must take on distance, as a temporal occurrence, a playing out of something, such that our dualism isn't trampled into yet another static oneness. This in short, constitutes the three-four movement - the **temporal succession of synthesized dualisms**. The third element as the synthesis of the dual strikes as the divine moment of communion with the absolute - reification of the ineffable unifying highest oneness. The being of object and non-object that together birth themselves through the third - i.e. their relation. Though stripped of personification and invigorating divine symbolism, these three forces are canonized mythologically as the Holy Trinity: Father, Mother, Son. Of note it is wholly unnecessary to map these constructions to our example of object, non-object, and subject. It appears to work nicely as object - Father, non-object - Mother, subject - Son (relation), but this is ultimately an arbitrary assignment in that our trinitarian construction is applicable in reverse order as subject finding itself in relation to object: subject, non-subject, object as relation. One can interestingly speculate about the psychological constitution of man as variations of playing out this three-four story at the level of social ego - Jungian typology is such an attempt.  Thus given the three fold absolute or divine form as the synthesis of a dualism, together with movement of being as a phenomenological fact, our fourth is born as the antithesis of our previous synthesis. Returning to our object, non-object, subject grouping, one must understand that temporal expression (movement, motion) logically requires succession or difference - a gap between the object, non-object, and subject. Our trinity impresses itself into a something, in other words the trinitarian form alone is the absolute, the supernal realm, the non-being plane - non-being only in the sense that no time is necessary, nor possible, in the eternal stasis of the All (descriptors are lacking, as they imply for themselves false dualisms that do not apply to the supernal, such as "static" - as if the absolute lacks dynamic quality - more correctly no descriptors are possible, it is the space outside dualistic separation).  


Yee oh cleverest one, what have you for me?



Avast ye mightiest One! Cast down thine light! Trill thine terror! Emanate thine glory!


Throughout grandiose failings lies the universal, painstakingly stoked by the elders, broken apart, to be re puzzled by those to whom the gift of mastery is spoken. For unto him lays the being, the meaning, that plane through which we venture forth, following for ourselves that being which cast not but mere shadow. Placid heathens are those that rejects its encounter, cast them away as wenches. 


Materialis Essentialis (lmao) is that lowest cognizable being that serves as the carrier wave for all higher aka. *inner* planes. They are inner, as in reside in the constitution of the outer apparent domains. 

Jung uses "initial psychic situation" as a brilliant descriptor 