Analysis of the mind-body problem gives the typical solution set of physicalism, panpsychism, and compatibilism. The solution set is particularly interesting, in that it contains the necessary universal logical set of all possibilities of a dichotomy. The solution to any dichotomy is that you're either left at one end, positing its universality (physicalism, panpsychism), or admitting the dualism for itself (compatibilism). Concluding one of the endpoints as the only truth necessarily results in philosophical stasis in that the opposing pole is merely pushed into "nonexistence", the conclusion being that it's metaphysically non-foundational.  One would like to think strictly in the positive of the conclusion, saying that in the particular endpoint constitutes the foundation of whatever distinction is being asked, but out of logical necessity the negative conclusion of the non-existence of the other endpoint is posited. It is equivalent to say "all is mind", and "not body is all". If the substrate of Being is Mind (panpsychism), it is therefore that the substrate is not Body. Of course it is immediately recognizable that it is the framing of the question running us into these judgments of the "domain of conclusions". The manner one has used to approach and frame the question has already given these assertions.  Because the question is composed with an "either-or" framing, the domain of conclusions can be mapped. Binary delineations always result in a symmetric solution space. If the question is A or B, the solution space is simply A and not B, or B and not A, until reflection on the question itself comes into play, in which case the solution space becomes A and not B, B and not A, A and B, not A and not B. In the case of the mind-body problem we appear to be missing the additional negation of accepting the dualism in the positive sense. The solution space should be fourfold:  physicalism, panpsychism, compatibilism (positive),  and compatibilism (negative). In other words if you can have both Mind and Body as foundational, why not also include the solution in which neither are? What we find in considering our new fourth option is what seems just to be undermining the question itself, if you ask an either-or question and the response is "neither", one is disagreeing with the framing / imposition of the distinction in the first place. Logically therefore, answering "both" also disagrees with the framing of the question. 

  

Any "metaphysical distinction" about the grounds of Being becomes onto itself the interest.  The unfolding of the question in its solution space shall be called under consideration. The question can be seen as emerging from a kind of "null space" of thought, as an arbitrary distinction that in its full completion in thought, reduces itself to non-being. As in quantum physics in which partially existing particles can be thought of as "borrowing" from the underlying substrate of quantum fluctuations, thought / delineation can be considered to "borrow" itself from non-being, thus bringing it into Being as temporary flux. The question posits metaphysical speculation as a division of two halves that further refute each other as logically entangled propositions. Thus the solution space takes on the structure of: the positive, the negative, both together, and the mysterious fourth: the complete refutation of the question itself. This fourth comes as the result of "dimension creep", as the initial framing of the question takes on a singular binary dimension, to which the third solution says "yes", and the fourth says "no". Properly understood, these additional (3rd and 4th) solutions introduce a new dimension to the solution space. The third being an attempt to mediate between opposing poles, the fourth being the positing of the mediation as fundamental, thus collapsing the entire question back into a binary: the question vs the not question. The initial delineation, through the abstraction / delineation process itself, is recognized and called into question - and thus refuted and returned to the "quantum fluctuations" of thought. The thought / delineation process always retains for itself a symmetry, and its initial proposition is therefore symmetrically undone as its "energy" is returned to its underlying substrate.  Being is composed essentially of a kind temporary borrowing from the underlying something or other to which all must be returned. All ideas seek their resolution, or more precisely a kind of homeostatic state in which no contradiction is maintained, i.e. a kind of low energy state in which equilibrium is found. This state is analogous to the zero energy thought, precisely those conundrums that are not currently under consideration. To open investigation of a particular thought is to suspend oneself in its waveform oscillation, to observe the fourth solution is to close investigation of the thought, to return its libidinal energy. 

  

Where there are three exists the fourth as its conclusion.  All substance is therefore "borrowed", any something or other is what it is from a distance to itself, Being becomes because it unravels itself. Being is its own distance to itself. Being walks away from itself and through the process of Becoming reunites with itself as Nothingness. Consciousness is possible as a result of this temporary borrowing from Nothingness, its contents are Being. Through this borrowing all things can be said to relate, as this borrowing process is the consumption of one delineation through abstraction. In our example Being and Nothingness are posited as a higher abstraction reframing of the Mind-Body problem, as it happens that to elucidate anything at all, one must make use of this borrowing process - which in this case is the Being-Nothingness construction.   Thus the underlying substance of thought is delineation against which there is no backdrop.

  

Is it possible to put a finger on why form takes on this structure? The answer accords with our situation as agents, which through subject-object distinction forms our a-priori concept. The substrate of our being is locality, consciousness is best described in the negative: the inaccessibility of others' perspective.  In this way we can properly understand our framing of consciousness - that I **can't** understand what it's like to be a bat. That's consciousness. In elucidating what it lacks we properly conceive its root: consciousness is locality. Again taking the negative as our line of reasoning, consciousness cannot be "empty", it contains, it entails perspective. Being is with respect to perspective. Physical space is properly only coherent with respect to an observer, dimensionality of space and time is the result of locality in space-time. Space exists with respect to a specificity of being-in-space, there is a "there" because there is a "here". We frequently try to think of space as objective, explicitly dropping out the observer, positing its existence as fundamental, essentially taking the resultant relation of the observer's observations with respect to the spatial, and making them essential. Suspending the observer in analysis of spatial relations is useful in understanding precisely observed spatial relations. One discounts themselves in physics in order to properly elucidate external occurrences, and then proceeds to verifying those occurrences via **observation**. When science is grounded in experimental observation, it is precisely grounded in the observer, in consciousness. 

  

The mind-body problem is equivalent to the locality problem, the problem of the agent, the problem of discretion. How can locality come to be?  The "hard-problem of consciousness" shares its solution space with this set of equivalent "problems", thus in some sense reducing all these questions to framings of the same underlying essential question. This framing can be used to address various misconceptions one might have metaphysically. We don't know necessarily what is "true", but we can negate / undermine conclusions based on misapprehensions of metaphysical concepts. 

  

The problem with "objectivism" (as I put it, I mean to refer to subject / observer denial) is it underestimates what is logically lost in defining the subject to come "after" the object in definite progression.  The argument refuting objectivism is simply that no coherent substance can be posited as Object prior to perspective (the subject). Does time / space therefore, no longer exist after death?  Surely the objective world exists without our consent, but it doesn't, because what we refer to as the objective world only has any meaning with respect to a subject. The world continues to exist **relative** to perspectives. Weren't that to be the case we should imagine the "objective world" relative to no perspective - what does it look like on its own (in-itself)? You could start with imagining the obvious, the spatial-temporal world full of objects of this and that constitution. One by one we justify each concept of this "objective world" as only coherently existing with respect to a subject: objects are understood only as artificial delineations, the space they inhabit is understood only with respect to the distance / relational structure imposed by locality, and time is grounded as non-nothingness because "now" exists (just as space is grounded in "here"). What, therefore, is left of the "objective world" once the observer is rejected? To say the "objective world" remains upon death is the mirror of the subject-oriented afterlife idea.  As with our disagreement of "objectivism" so shall we disagree with "subjectivism" (Idealism). As with imagining the "objective world" devoid of subject, imagining the "subjective world" devoid of object is incoherent. Subject and Object logically necessitate each other, and therefore by the primordial force of logic cannot developmentally succeed each other. It cannot be said that the objective world exists first, and then subjects come to populate it, it's just a silly as saying the subject exists first and the world comes to greet it from the outside (as in a kind of brain in the vat form - though even this doesn't truly demonstrate "pure subject", as there can be no objectless subject).

  

As painful as it is to wrap your head around the idea that the world simultaneously exists merely because of you, and that you exist merely because of the world, it appears to be the logically necessary belief.  To the subject space and time exist because we are "in'' it (the object), to the object space and time exist because it is observed (the subject). It seems as though one is left with nothing in the end, as both the subject and object for themselves cannot be said to have any coherent foundation logically, yet Being is irrefutable: stuff is happening.  Thus our logic must come to reconcile Being with the incoherence of subject/object in-themselves. Like with the mind-body problem above (it's the same question fundamentally) we propose the third and fourth solution: compatibility of subject and object, and rejection of both. The third supposes the relation of subject and object as the grounding of Being, the fourth suspends us in a new binary: being vs non-being - as to take the relation of subject and object as its frame of reference against which it posits nonexistence. This nonexistence is the lack of subject-object relation, which runs us into the inconceivability of nothingness, as there is no non-frame of reference from which to appreciate nothingness. 

  

Because Being is merely given, we have here run into the edge of metaphysical propositions and can safely conclude the third (subject-object synthesis) as the only logical option.  This in some sense is just an obvious truism, but employed properly as an evaluating concept alleviates many misunderstandings.