The Subject can phenomenologically be construed as that internal consciousness manufacturing localizing centrality [[Tiphareth]]. Though insufficient and reductive as an ontology, one can understand the subject to be that which is concentrated in the brain or mind that is responsible for illuminating experiential reality, and the object to be those "non-self" constructs by which the subject populates its reality. A subjectless object is inconceivable, and cannot be said to have anything to do with mere object-permanence as in psychology. Even the psychological principle is telling in that object-permanence is precisely a process by which the subject maintains constitution of objects out of view. Denial of subjectivity is as foolish an error as pure idealism. It is rightly pointed out therefore, that no #object-in-itself is consciously accessible (by logical extension it follows too for #subject-in-itself). Accessibility being the confines, and therefore the determinant factor by which consciousness can knowably produce an experience - aka the a priori necessary conditions for consciousness of being.  What is left is the exclusionary (of subject and object #in-itself) relation between the two. One therefore rightly speaks of these two ends of the dualism as the supernal and unknowable divine Father and divine Mother who birthed their relation into being. This relation is the unity of the entire consciously accessible domain.  As metaphysically unified forces the masculine and feminine are a mere nothingness. It is through their relation that time is birthed as the reflection of the one into the other. We need not conceive these principles from their supernal end (oneness) as paradox abounds - the delineating process (knowing) fails to cognize a domain of which it has no say. Instead these conclusions are to be seen as a participant being in being which therefore is present regardless of the incoherence of judging God from outside himself. 
