Asymptotic Mirror of Ketherian #in-itself. Potentially interchangeably representative of psychological foundation of subject or object, as discussed in [[Interchangeability of Perspective]].  From the idealist perspective, the cognized abyssal darkness resultant suggested by the totalizing unity of #subject-in-itself. Because of [[Kether]]'s transcendent (supernal, divine, absolute) unity essence, the temporal psyche must cognize all dualistic layers simultaneously, which while ignoring its mystically claimed experiential status, formal analysis suggests its typical mythological characteristics. Considered the "abyss" - that plane of emptiness through which one must pass to achieve transcendent unity, the "dark night of the soul" in that locality of being [[Tiphareth]] must extend itself to boundless infinity, thus achieving through the lamb of God (subject-object synthesis) that vision in Revelation. The upward moving force of extension of locality into the higher All of God (Luciferian) finds its dual in demiurgic (Ahrimanian) downward force expressing the transcendent absolute as temporal physicality.  Conceived as the downward force the Abyss serves as "dark matter", or that splitting into fourfold being of the supernal. Not to be conceived of as in any way morally grim, the abyss is merely the fourth of the supernal trinitarian God-head that breaths life essence into the absolute. Daath offers itself as the fourth, the compliment of God's expression of locality - its absolute form being the #in-itself of [[Malkuth]]. It is therefore that Daath represents a kind of additional byproduct of the supernal psychological inaccessibility through its coherent seven-fold expression. Daath being a kind of mystical atheistic Divine Father concept necessary to ensure coherent form is maintained psychologically. While kabbalistically Saturn is said to belong in its proper place in [[Binah]], we are here well exposed to the deficiency of supernal form as conceived psychologically, and it is thus that from [[Tiphareth]] Saturn takes its proper representation as Daath, [[Binah]] retaining its static supernal absolute form. Daath conceived is a questionable attempt to force the transcendent view onto the [[Tiphareth]] view, which otherwise is unnecessary given the already tripartite [[Tiphareth]] view of supernal unity. See [[Movement of Being]]for the phenomenologically proper #three-four (seven-fold) conception of [[Tiphareth]] / absolute concept.  