Thought is the delineating process by which separation is achieved about objects - the objectifying process, as in that force that splices the object-domain into its constituent objects. Emotion (value, desire, [[Netzach]]) gives weight / gravity to the contents of subjectivity. In their unity passions are poured into the dualistically delineated subset of the object-domain so as to have a directedness about them. The synthesis of these forces are Judgement ([[Geburah]]), to say naught of the unifying force itself - the subject-object synthesis ([[Tiphareth]]). As judgement is conceived of in respect to the subject-object synthesis, it takes on the domain of its perception. In other words Judgement has substantiality about the totality of its occurrence in Being ([[Tiphareth]]) - as a psychological truth. Judgement has for its antithesis that being to which judgement is applied - namely, again its contents. Just as knowledge ([[Hod]]) serves as the vessel into which delineated psychological weight can be given, Judgement ([[Geburah]]) serves as the vessel through which the flows of dynamic movement find their coherent pathing. Essentially the splitting process by which the object-domain remains navigable. Its antithesis, therefore, is the unifying process through which synthesis with object-domain is reinstated ([[Chesed]]). In this formic conception of phenomenological being are construed the basis for the psychological reality of Love - the unifying ([[Chesed]]), Hate - the separating ([[Geburah]]). Logically they are complimentary forces, as without Hate the subject-object synthesis in Being, as in split into its temporal four-fold synthesis, its synthesis is only cognizable in time as a dualism which therefore requires a double dualism or fourfold structure - its bare status as subject-object and its movement through time (as a resultant quality of its primordial division), would have no basis for locality of Love. It is to be recognized [[Hod]], [[Netzach]], [[Geburah]], and [[Chesed]] together require (according only to logical form) what we referred to as 'locality'. Each of the members of the fourfold distinction, in their prefunified conception as the lower: [[Hod]] and [[Netzach]], and postunified conception of the higher: [[Geburah]] and [[Chesed]] (by unified it is meant consciously conceived of in subject-object synthesis [[Tiphareth]], not reunification as in the [[Chesed]] force - of the contents themselves) contribute ultimately to Law, dynamically playing out in Being (as in through [[Tiphareth]] - the subject-object synthesis).   It is by subjecting (note the convenient use of available language, lol) oneself fully to Law (the fourfold opening into which transcendent being pours) that one embodies being as it is - through itself (the subject-object synthesis). In modeling the entire dynamic together one encounters a seven-fold structure: the mirror psychological subject-object of [[Daath]] as subject (to recognize the impossibility of pure [[Kether]]ian awareness, see the logic of asymptotic impossibility of the #subject-in-itself in [[Subject-Object]])  and [[Yesod]] as the asymptotic mirror #object-in-itself (which is the deference of the dual impossibility of pure [[Malkuth]]ian awareness). It is thus that one's psychological reality in instantiated temporal being is composed of the seven: [[Hod]] knowledge, [[Yesod]] sensory perception,  [[Netzach]] value, [[Geburah]] judgement, [[Chesed]] love (as an actively playing out force: "mercy"), and, in its centrality (or locality - as in, in time, dynamic being) [[Tiphareth]] be that unifying essence, or relation by which the dynamic forces come into conscious awareness. Mythologically these forces are represented as god forms with physical planetary correlates (not to get into this now, but the physical plane is by necessity constituted of representations corresponding entirely to the above seven fold psychological constitution - which takes on a fractal form - as this is itself the spiral consequence of the [[Movement of being]]). 